# Suicide_Detector

Depression is a common illness worldwide, with an estimated 3.8% of the population affected, including 5.0% among adults and 5.7% among adults older than 60 years. Approximately 280 million people in the world have depression. Depression is different from usual mood fluctuations and short-lived emotional responses to challenges in everyday life. Especially when recurrent and with moderate or severe intensity, depression may become a serious health condition. It can cause the affected person to suffer greatly and function poorly at work, at school and in the family. At its worst, depression can lead to suicide. Over 700 000 people die due to suicide every year. Suicide is the fourth leading cause of death in 15-29-year-olds.

This is a NLP deep learning model that can detect any suicidal thoughts. The deep learning model consists of embedding layer, flatten layer, and output layer. The model has the abiity to test instantaneously any input and detect its right label. Detecting any suicidal as soon as possible may save lives of many people and that is the main point of developed technologies; its effect.

The model has been trained on Suicide Detection Clean Kaggle dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rnunez1975/suicide-detection-clean This dataset is a collection of posts from "SuicideWatch" and "depression" subreddits of the Reddit platform. The posts are collected using Pushshift API. All posts that were made to "SuicideWatch" from Dec 16, 2008(creation) till Jan 2, 2021, were collected while "depression" posts were collected from Jan 1, 2009, to Jan 2, 2021. 
